And uh in 2024 they're predicting that
almost 1,700 people will die each day.
And that's like six almost 612,000 for
the year. Um which are numbers. But you
can even break it down further because
1,700 people a day comes out to about 70
people per hour in the United States are
dying from cancer. And many of these
folks are dying from a combination of
the toxic poisonous treatment given as
well as uh together with the tumor. So
the big improvement in reducing cancer
deaths has come from a prevention uh
very very little for many new
technologies uh any new therapies and
that's mainly because there the
therapies that are developed are based
on the idea that cancer is a genetic
disease and if the theory is incorrect
then we're we're not going to move the
needle in any significant way in
reducing death. So this I consider one
of the greatest probably if not one of
the greatest the greatest tragedy in the
history of of medicine uh where we we
have a clear understanding of what
causes cancer what
drives but we're we're from from con
confirmation bias and all these
ideological viewpoints we're not
implementing what we need to do to drop
that death rate. Well, it's called in
our world of managing cancer, it's
called ketogenic metabolic therapy.
>> Uh but you can prevent cancer as well
doing that. Well, all it is is is
essentially lowering the blood sugar and
allowing ketones to elevate naturally.
Uh you can also take maybe some ketone
supplements. But that's why because the
diet and discussions of diet become so
um ambiguous for one person versus the
next. Some people are vegans,
carnivores, pescatarians, Mediterranean
diets, all this kind of stuff. What is
the common how do we how do we exploit
this? And we developed, as I mentioned
earlier, the glucose ketone index
calculator.
>> Yeah. which allows someone to lower
their blood sugar and elevate their
their ketones regardless of what kind of
religious or
background you may have, cultural and
religious restrictions. Anybody can do
this and and what it what it is is is a
way to enhance and increase your health
uh with three to keeping your
mitochondria as healthy as they possibly
can be. Well, I think that the
prevention if you want to if we're
talking about cancer, people would don't
want to get
who feels that they they need to have
cancer get to be better. No, I think we
can prevent it by exercise and
maintaining uh reduced glucose and
elevated ketones that keeps your
mitochondria healthy. If your
mitochondria are healthy, it's very
difficult to get um reduce stress,
reduce all the kinds of things that
cause um disregulated uh mitochondrial
function. And I in my papers that I've
written everything I I have to we
publish open access papers so people can
read our press metabolic therapy. People
can read how cancer cannot be a genetic
disease. people can read all of the
evidence that I don't have time to give
you the nuts and bolts of what I'm
talking about, but it's on the web. Just
put my name in. Just say, "What is he
publishing?" And then you can use that
for your own uh health and improvement.
Hello friends and welcome to another
episode of Your Health Matters. My name
is Carl Sterling. I'm pleased to be your
host. You know, a lot of times we have
certain rituals we go through before we
get into the meat and potatoes of the
episode. But today, we're not going to
do any of that. And I'll tell you why.
Because we have a special guest with us
today, somebody who I've been studying
here for quite some time.
And he's doing amazing, groundbreaking
work. His name is Dr. Thomas Seaff
Freed. He's a pioneering researcher in
the field of cancer metabolism and the
author of cancer as a metabolic disease.
His groundbreaking work has transformed
how we understand the origins and
treatment of cancer focusing on
non-toxic metabolic therapies. This is
really exciting. So I am honored to have
him here with me today to share his
insights on the future of cancer
treatment and how we can better approach
this complex disease. Welcome Dr. Seaff
Freed. How you doing?
>> I'm I'm doing very well Carl and thank
you for having me on your on your
program.
>> Oh my pleasure. Believe me, it's my
pleasure totally. I have been, you know,
following you for quite some time and um
really fascinated by the work you're
doing and I know you we when I watch uh
you read different things and watch
different interviews with you, you you
were doing a lot in the arena of
epilepsy, you know, all the way back to
even Yale, right? You've been at Boston
College for 30ome years. Yeah, I've been
now for uh almost 40 years and um
uh I was at Yale for nine years in the
department of
neurology before I came to Boston
College.
>> Okay. So, you know, when we define
cancer, I don't think that the
definition of cancer is necessarily
rocket science. It seems to be an
irregular growth of
well, maybe you want to do it, not me.
You're the expert. But if if we define
cancer very very succinctly,
what is it?
>> Uh you're right. It is quite simple.
It's the definition of cancer is cell
division out of control or disregulated
cell growth. That's it. That's what the
definition of cancer is.
>> All right. That thank you for that. That
just made it so easy. So what I find
really fascinating
and uh with my son being a physician as
emergency room training is his thing but
you know a lot of research and his PhD
I'm totally bragging for just a minute
but really you learned so much from him
and a lot of the other experts who let's
say they're thinking outside the box
like you are thinking forward and really
looking at you know the causation of a
lot of things. It seems that the current
state of things, the medical world is
looking at cancer or I should say still
looking at cancer as being largely
genetic
when in fact it might not be so much
genetic. Maybe it's a more of a
metabolic disease.
And that's that's to me like I I don't
want to have you run with it on that one
because can you describe to us what that
means? this whole metabolic dysfunction
in relation to cancer.
>> Well, I I think I think you have to
first look at uh what the National
Cancer Institute, NCI uh calls cancer
and essentially
all cancer centers throughout throughout
the United States and the world for that
matter, they refer to cancer as a
genetic disease. It's right on their
website. And what does that mean? It
means that mutations
in the nucleus lead to uh cells uh
dividing out of control which is
essentially what cancer is. So um and on
the National Cancer Institute website
they say cancer is a hundred different
diseases uh all differing in genetic uh
background mutations and all this kinds
of things making it an extremely
complicated disorder. Um and the
therapies that we have currently used
these imunotherapies CARTT imunotherapy
PDL1 uh kinds of imunotherapies
um are all based on
being a genetic disease. The issue of
course is is that if cancer is not a
genetic disease then then what what it
might what can it be and I'll I'll tell
you that the new information is coming
that shows that we we now find some
tumors that have no no mut um when you
look at them with uh with very deep se
genetic sequencing uh there are some
even though the same technology finds
thousands of mutations in the tumor of
of one person they they might not find
this in the in the so there are some
cancers that do not have uh the
mutations and and then they kind of
broke it down and said well not all
mutations are leading to disregulated
cell growth but we have uh recognized
only some of these and they're called
driver driver mutations
and they're the ones that drive uh the
disregulated cell growth. Um and now uh
so people said okay well we have
passenger mutations that don't do too
much they're there in many of the tumors
but the real the real mutations that
cause the disregulated
cell growth driver mutations. So within
the last few years now we're seeing
dozens of papers and many studies
finding all of these driver mutations
present in normal tissues of people that
don't have cancer. Healthy people older
younger people. you look at their tissue
and you do a genetic sequence and you
find all these so-called cancer driver
mutations and the people are perfectly
healthy with no tumor. So um this is a
massive chicatic mutation theory when
you have some cancers with no mutations
and other cancers with driver mutations
that don't show disregulated growth. And
then of course the nuclear mitochondrial
transfer experiments are the nail in the
coffin uh where you take the nucleus
of the into a new cytoplasm with normal
mitochondria and you get regulated
growth. And if you take the nucleus of
the normal cell and put it into the
cytoplasm of the tumor cell, you get
disregulated growth. All of these uh are
devastating inconsistencies
uh the general consensus that cancer is
a genetic disease. It's not. You have to
be a a hopeless ideologue to think that
cancer is a genetic disease.
>> So So what is it? and and and we and
others have shown that all cancers
ferment glucose and glutamine, the sugar
and glucose and the amino acid glutamine
and they cannot burn fatty acids or
ketones. And this goes
back to which we have confirmed and we
have extended his uh original findings
the famous German biochemist from the
last uh from the last century. If you
want to learn how to implement the
ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/keto
forcancer, the new community by our
research analyst Johnny Rockermeer.
Within this new community platform, you
can connect with other patients and
learn from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford, we will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols.
So, take a look around at school.com/
keto for cancer.
>> So, we now know that all tumors suffer
from the same problem. The problem is
they they they're driven by a non
the mutations are largely irrelevant uh
to this uh their red herrings. People
are focusing on the wrong thing. But we
we can't find tumors that can survive
without glucose and glutamine. So, and
they can't switch to fatty acids or
ketones because their mitochondria are
dysfunctional. So, this then describes
how you manage cancer. you
simultaneously take away the fuels and
you
transition them to nutritional ketosis
and you should be able to manage the
disorder without toxicity.
Oh man, that right there is just a gold
mine of information. uh when we come
back from the first break here, I'm
really fascinated by this whole
fermentation subject and and and some of
the history behind that and what's
actually happening because um I'm not
sure I understand it completely yet, but
I I'm beginning to. So, um thank you so
much Dr. Seaffrey for joining us. You're
listening to Your Health Matters here on
uh the iHeart Network. It's great to
have you with us. We'll be back after
this short break.
All right, we are back with Dr. Thomas
Seaff Freed. And I got to tell you, man,
this is all fascinating to me. The one
of the buzzwords these days, it seems
anyways, is mitochondria, mitochondria
health, mitochondrial dysfunction. Um,
mitochondria every, it's everything.
It's everywhere. And you know, ATP, how
important it is to health have healthy
mitochondria and be producing the energy
we need. And so
hopefully my segue here actually makes
sense. This idea of fermentation
if if I'm thinking correctly here,
it refers to a metabolic uh process
where cancer cells rely on let's see
aerobic glycosis. Is am I on track here?
>> Yeah, it's aerobic glycolysis. It's the
>> I'm so sorry. Yeah. Glycolysis, also
known as a warbber warbber effect. Is
that right?
>> Well, you know, it's a term that that's
poorly understood by the majority of
people in the cancer field. It's a term
they'd like to throw around. Uh but, you
know, we we we
use it to
>> to to say cancer cells continue to
produce energy
>> uh through through a non oxidative
mechanism even in the presence of 100%
oxygen. This is a very abnormal very
would be an extremely abnormal
situation.
>> Okay. So, let's um I'd like to get down
to
really like the the cause. Let's if we
get down to the cause, which which I
think you touched on previously, except
I want to try to unpack or break it down
into something real simple here. this
abnormal cellular growth or splitting or
whatever is going on with cancer.
If it's not genetic, there's something
going wrong. We can have a mitochondria
issue, a metabolic issue. Um
what what would be a a great
preventative, let's say a preventative
measure, and what's a great therapeutic
measure for dealing with cancer? Let's
say preventing it and dealing with it.
I'm going to let you run with that.
>> Yeah. Well, let's talk about prevention.
It's very difficult uh to get cancer if
mitochondria health if the mitochondria
are healthy. So, uh all cancers arise
from a chronic uh disruption of
oxidative phosphorilation which means
energy using oxygen. That's what I are
breathing right now. Every time we take
a breath in, there's oxygen in there.
And that oxygen then is used uh to drive
energy through what we call oxidative
phosphorilation, which is the production
of ATP.
>> Mhm.
>> using oxygen as an acceptor. So, and
every every exhale breath we blow out
CO2 and moisture water. And those are
the end products. The endroducts of
oxidative phosphorilation
are CO2 and water. And the CO2 comes
from the foods that we eat, the carbon
and the foods that we eat. So, so that's
normal respiration. Cancer cells are
very very different. They they have a
chronic disruption of that process. And
I say chronic because it acute
disruption like cyanide some block
oxidative phosphorilation and you die
instantly. But cancer cells chronically
they have a chronic uh disruption of
that process which is closely coupled to
a protracted increase in non oxidative
energy which are these ancient pathways
of fermentation. Um and this is how all
cells live lived on our planet before
oxygen came to the billion years.
>> Thank you. Thank you. I'm I'm
interrupting one second because that's
something I've heard you say before. So
I want to go back. First of all, that's
fascinating. That's before oxygen
entered our as atmosphere, we had
fermentation.
That's because there was no oxygen. So,
how were these cells dividing? And most
of those cells at that time from fossil
records had uh uh disregulated cell
growth. So they would grow uh uh wildly
un unbridled proliferation
until
in their environment were depleted and
then these cells would die. So the
cancer cell is simply using those
ancient pathways and as long as the
fermentable fuels in the tumor micro
environment are are there which are
glucamine
those cells are very difficult to kill.
So they they're living on these ancient
fermentation pathways even in the
presence of oxygen making this an
unusual kind of a situation. So so uh we
we know uh that and and and and that
mitochondria have have lost their
ability uh to produce uh sufficient ox
energy through oxidative
phosphorilation. And you're right when
you talk about mitochondria mitochondria
mitochondria they control the destiny of
the cell they control the diffusescent
state of the cell. When that organel uh
becomes corrupted it now loses control
of the cell falling back on these
ancient pathways of disregulated cell
growth. So the mitochondrian is the
controller of the destiny not only of
ourselves
but of exists because it's the second
law of thermodynamics that eventually
kills us. Disorder we eventually
collapse. We have no longer energy. If
you live a normal lifestyle, if you live
a normal lifespan, not not of course
from accidents or injuries or things
like this.
>> Sure.
>> We we we just peter out. And that's
because our mitochondria are no longer
capable of maintaining uh u cell
electrical potential across cells. We
reach equilibrium which is death. So
cancer is like an accelerated process of
disorderation
fuels are present. These things will
will grow out of control and they're
very difficult to kill.
>> Yeah. Oh man. So ATP I just want to go
back to that. We talk about that all the
time here in my clinic because it's one
of our energy systems, Denisonin,
adenosin triphosphate, right? So, when
you're doing a set of 15 or 12 reps and
you're feeling that burn on the last
two, three or four, and you get in a
good,
>> you know, leg extension, whatever,
working on the quads, could be anything.
We need to take a break.
Optimally, we want to take a break for a
certain amount of time, depending upon
the phase of training they're in. let
the ATP get back into the muscles to the
degree it can and then do another set.
But if we don't have health healthy
mitochondria,
the ATP production is going to be
compromised if I'm not if I'm thinking
right.
Yeah. Well, that's you know uh yeah it
will be and but you have to if you don't
replace the energy from uh you don't
replace ATP from
phosphorilation
uh you have to get the energy from
another source and and if you exercise
your muscles excessively they the energy
over overwhelms the ability of oxygen to
to do this. So they'll produce lactic
acid which is
>> lactic fermentation which is energy
you're producing still producing
significant energy without oxygen
because the muscles are so active you
can't get enough oxygen in there but as
soon as you stop exercising the lactic
acid actually the lactic acid goes into
the bloodstream goes to the li liver and
liver converts it back into glucose
which goes back to the muscle to
generate the ATP. So that was the Corey
the Corey cycle.
>> Solid 30 Cory got the Nobel Prize for
that back in the for 1940s.
>> Love this stuff. Love this stuff. Um
let's see. Actually, we need to go to
break in about a minute. So when we come
back, folks, I'd like to talk more about
what's going on here with all this
cellular stuff and mitochondria health
dysfunction and and good function. I
think it's really interesting. doctor
that uh well actually sad just we're
going to leave on this note here uh
until the next segment is sadly we'll
segue into this at some point we have
something like 16700 people a day in
this country dying from cancer and it
didn't used to be like that so it's
almost like a epidemic proportion I'd
like to touch on that when we come back
so with us we have Dr. Thomas Seaff
freed and uh
his book is called Cancer as a Metabolic
Disease. I highly recommend get on
Amazon, get on whatever, buy it. It's a
fantastic resource. We'll be back after
the short break.
Okay, we're back with Dr. Thomas C.
Freed, the author of Cancer as a
Metabolic Disease.
Uh doctor, this is um one of the sad
things we, you know, were reporting is
about 1,700 people per day. 1,700 people
per day dying of cancer. Now I'm 63
years old. It seems to me when I was 50
years ago, maybe I know cancer was here
and there. We heard about it, but it
seems like,
you know, and there are more people now,
too, than there were 50 years ago, but
the percentage of people with cancer
seems to have risen greatly. I don't
have stats, but let's address this 1,700
people passing away per day. What What's
happening? What's going on? Why Why is
this happening?
>> Yeah. Well, those those numbers those
numbers are are cataloged by the um
American Cancer Society.
So, it came out with the big p cancer
statistics and deaths and all this kind
of stuff. And uh in 2024, they're
predicting that almost 1700 people will
die each day. And that's like six almost
612,000 for the year. Um which are
numbers, but you can even break it down
further because 1,700 people a day comes
out to about 70 people per hour in the
United States are dying from cancer. And
many of these folks are dying from a
combination of the toxic poisonous
treatment given as well as uh together
with the tumor. Um because a lot of
folks when they're first diagnosed, you
know, they're they're actually not too
unhealthy, but sometimes they do have
type two diabetes, obesity, and this
kind of thing. the biggest um and of
course when you listen to the statistics
and the and enormous progress in
reducing the death from cancer but that
all became because of the anti-smoking
campaigns of the 1990s
>> made smoking uh uh health risk
secondhand smoke and all this. So peer
pressure from the city um push put
pressure on smoking and of course
smoking was linked to lung cancer as
well as a variety of other other cancers
as well as other diseases. So the big
improvement in reducing cancer deaths
has come from a prevention uh very very
little for many new technologies uh any
new therapies and that's mainly because
there the therapies that are developed
are based on the idea that cancer is a
genetic disease and if the theory is
incorrect then we're we're not going to
move the needle in any significant way
in reducing death. So this I consider
one of the greatest probably if not one
of the greatest the greatest tragedy in
the history of of medicine. Uh where we
we have a clear understanding of what
causes cancer what drives but we're
we're from from con confirmation bias
and all these ideological viewpoints
we're not implementing what we need to
do to drop that death rate uh
significantly. And as I said, once
cancer becomes recognized
as a misorder driven by a fermentation
metabolism, we should be able to drop
the death by at least 50% in 10 to to 15
years depending on we have to retrain
people and we have to just tell them
that this is something very different
than what they thought it was. So
a major advance uh we shouldn't have to
be treating people with these toxic
poison surgical mutilations and all the
crazy stuff. This this is medieval
stuff. it's done by people who who
either don't know or understand the
nature of the disorder who or who refuse
to understand uh the nature of the
problem. So um yes we can prevent uh
it's interesting because metabolic
therapy ketogenic metabolic therapy is
used not only to manage cancer but it
also can be used to prevent cancer. So
at Boston College, uh I developed my my
students and I developed the glucose
ketone index calculator which measures
the ratio of blood sugar to ketones in
the blood and that can be um uh a way to
prevent cancer because if you can keep
the blood sugar low and the ketones
elevated in other words putting your
body into the paleolithic lifesty
lifestyle like our ancestors who did not
have cancer in the Paleolithic uh period
uh you're certainly prevent it and then
if you do have cancer the first thing uh
what is done is you bring the patient
back into this low glucose ketone index
uh and then the tumor cells come
extremely vulnerable to the utilization
of even some of the chemo drugs can be
used in very small quantities even rad
all the things we're using can be used
in very small quantities very low
dosages and have maximum massive effects
uh without
collaterality so it's interesting we
have all the tools to manage cancer
effectively. We're just not using it
correctly based on an incorrect theory
of what of what the disease is. And
until the NCI changes and realizes that
it's a metabolic disease, I don't think
we're going to see any drop
significantly
in anywhere until till the field
recognizes uh what we can do and how we
can manage this disorder without
toxicity.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, to put things into
a perspective for some of us who like
numbers like I do, we've been on for
just over 30 minutes, which means that
approximately 35 people, if we go with
1,700 people passing away a day,
approximately 35 people have passed away
since we started talking.
Almost unbelievable. It's mindboggling.
Mindboggling. So preventatively speaking
then it seems like maybe exercise might
be good for us. Keeping our blood sugar
in a healthy zone is good for us. Not
eating eating processed foods and too
much sugar and maybe eating optimal
amounts for us instead of binging out
and eating way too much all the time
because we'll feed ourselves good stuff.
Feed ourselves our mitochondria
and keep moving which is another
problem. I heard you say in another
interview, in fact, I was sitting in my
car in a traffic jam when I heard it.
Here we are sitting in our cars in
traffic jams. Whoa, that's me right now.
But at least I get out and I move and I
do things. But it's true. There's so
much sitting time, sedentary time. So,
um,
where do we go next, doctor? What's next
on your in your thought process here?
>> Well, right now you're right.
uh what what's causing the cancer is our
diet and lifestyle issues. Um we we were
made to move uh all the time for for for
paleolithic hundreds of thousands of
years as a species. We were tracking
down animals and killing them
>> and we had to use a lot of energy and
there was no there there weren't Dunkin
Donuts on every corner or
delicatessence. Uh you know not to say
that we that we wouldn't have wanted
that's our desire. We like sweet things.
We like this. We have an obesity
epidemic which is now replacing type 2
diabetes. The these are these this is a
clear example of our evolutionary p. The
d the the the obesity epidemic is
evolution in action.
We we our ancestors were storing energy
like crazy to survive. They didn't have
the massive amounts of high carbohydrate
energy that we have. And the obesity
epidemic is clearly telling us we are
the descendants of folks that lived
thousands of years ago who really
had a biology to store energy. And now
we have so much highly processed
carbohydrates which are foods that can
last in a on a shelf for long periods of
time as opposed to things that are
natural. So processed carbs, uh minimal,
stress, bad sleep, uh uh all kinds of uh
disruptive disruptive u activities put
us at risk for disregulated cell growth.
It's not it's not that complicated.
>> No. No. And on a side note here, I uh
not that long ago talked with an
undertaker who told me I don't remember
the numbers. This is pretty morbid.
Literally
the amount of inbalming fluid needed
these days compared to 100 years ago is
a lot less because we're fairly well
preserved many of us. So there's
something to think about. Whoa. So when
we come back, you know, I'd love to talk
more about this uh ke uh ketogenic the
the dietary part of things. I think
that's really fascinating can be really
good thing for our listeners to learn.
So we are with Dr. Thomas Caff Freed,
author of Cancer as a Metabolic Disease,
an amazing, groundbreaking book, and his
work is groundbreaking. We'll be back
here on Your Health Matters in just a
couple of minutes.
And we're back with Dr. Thomas Seaff
Freed. And this is uh been really
informative, man. I'm I'm so excited to
have you here. I'd love to talk about
the uh the ketogenic aspect of things.
You know, like you said before we went
to break, processed carbs, carbs,
sugars, processed foods, they're
everywhere. It's a subject of a lot of
conversations I have on the show. I
think that a lot of us uh you know, I
I'm guilty these days. I don't crave
sweets. I just want to eat potato chips.
But I'll go couple weeks without them
and then I've got to dive into a small
bag because I'm just going to have them.
But for the most part, I've gotten rid
of all that, you know, really crummy
processed stuff. And I do feel a lot
better.
>> It's but but let's let's talk about
dietary wise. What can we do to fight
cancer? And it it seems like it should
be a no-brainer. You know, we were paleo
way back. Our ancestors were. Um let's
talk about this. So uh yes and also when
you have cancer when you're in a ketoic
state where glucose is low and ketones
are elevated we notice that the delivery
of drugs
to the so much better and easier.
>> Ketones enhance the health and vitality
of our mitochondria. It's it's called my
late good friend um Richard Vch from the
NIH and George Cah wrote a paper ketones
a super fuel. What it does is it
enhances the health and vitality of your
normal cells. uh to a to an ex an
extended level uh brain focus uh brain
metabolism, muscle metabolism, all of
these things increased tremendously. So
we developed cotox so that patient
anybody can know when they're in this
nutritional state of ketosis and that's
can be done with any diet as long but
people say oh it's hard for me to do
this and hard for me to do that. I can't
eat this and I can't eat that. We go
zero carb
for about 14 days and then you can
switch into water only fasting and then
you can manage it with various foods
that you know will not elevate glucose
too much. My my good friend Dominic D
Augustino, he's always in one of these
ketoic states. Yeah, he's he's
paleolithic man.
>> He's cool
>> in modern society.
>> So um and and so it's not impossible to
do but it's not easy. And I I want to
emphasize and I agree with the potato
chips uh every now and take a little
take advantage of all the all the
technology that we've that we've
developed over the over the eons to
enjoy a pizza or even a jelly donut. But
but if you're if you're if you're
existing on this stuff
and then you're cancer bait, you know,
and you get all psychiatric problems and
you get all kinds of other problems uh
with this. But it people need to know
that. I think it's the knowledge base.
Once you understand and then once you
get the meter, you can buy it from
Amazon, Keto Mojo, and you can do free
Libras and all these kinds of things.
People start collecting the data from
each person uh on themselves and then
they know, especially cancer patients,
it's essential. But for the regular guy
who wants to stay healthy, he can do the
>> So, okay. So, that meter you're talking
about, the glucose ketone index
calculator.
>> Yeah. It's a Yeah, it's a glue. It's a
meter. Like, it's a blood glucose meter.
You take a a prick of your finger and
you get you can get it on Amazon.
>> Yeah. Yeah. You can buy it on Amazon.
It's called Keto Mojo. And they ser they
sell the consumables.
>> So, everybody can have that. And of
course, the technology is improving. So,
uh, we're we have the free liver glucose
monitor on your arm, but it doesn't do
ketones.
>> This is so good. I told you on a break,
you're a genius. I'm telling you, doc,
you're a genius. I appreciate your
genius on my show here. And the fact you
created this thing, and I didn't know it
was available. I'm going to look it up
right away.
>> Well, wait a minute. I didn't I didn't
make the the Keto Mojo, but the Keto
Mojo as a as our counter into the Mojo.
>> But it's based on what you did make.
Yes. Yeah, but we couldn't patent that.
You can't patent a mathematical formula,
but it's certainly selling a lot of the
mojo. So, I'm happy that people are
selling mojo, but I don't have any part
in that. That's uh
>> Well, yeah. I'm sorry if I said anything
I shouldn't there, but but the bottom
line is you put together this glucose
ketone index calculator. So, in the Keto
Mojo,
>> yeah,
>> you can measure this stuff. This is
epic. This is so important. This is so
important. So, data is king for me. I
need to measure everything I can
possibly measure with my people here.
Right? So, this is another thing for the
list.
>> Carl, listen. Listen, you got to ask how
many people in our modern society would
like to go back to the paleolithic
period of existence because the the the
GKI will do that. And then all of a
sudden, you're going to say, "Oh, well,
I don't, you know, it's great and
wonderful, but I prefer I prefer modern
modern modern diet lifestyle." It's not
that easy. But you have you have the
quantitative measure to do it today if
you want.
>> Sure. Sure. We I I love that. So, just
to clarify for listeners, uh we talk
about mitochondria often on this show.
And in case you're not familiar with
what it is, I'm just going to give you a
real simple thing. It's the power pack
of every cell in our body. It needs to
be high function.
If it's not functioning high, no,
neither is the cell. And if you get
enough of them not functioning, well,
you're not going to feel good. And
there's some problems that are going to
happen. So mitochondria is key. I mean
without it, we're not going to be here.
So doctor, let me ask you this in the
last two minutes we have here.
What would be your ultimate let's say
takeaway message
uh for people to think about? What
should they be thinking and doing? Well,
I think that the prevention if you want
to if we're talking about cancer, people
would don't want to get
who feels that they they need to have
cancer get to be better. No, I think we
can prevent it by exercise and
maintaining uh reduce glucose and
elevated ketones that keeps your
mitochondria healthy. If your
mitochondria are healthy, it's very
difficult to get um reduce stress,
reduce all the kinds of things that
cause um disregulated uh mitochondrial
function. And I in my papers that I've
written everything I I have to we
publish open access papers so people can
read our press metabolic therapy. People
can read how cancer cannot be a genetic
disease. people can read all of the
evidence that I don't have time to give
you the nuts and bolts of what I'm
talking about, but it's on the web. Just
put my name in. Just say, "What is he
publishing?" And then you can use that
for your own uh health and improvement.
>> I love it. Boy, I I'd love to have you
back sometime to talk more if you're up
for it. I really appreciate all the
great work you're doing, doctor. Thank
you. Thank you very much.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> Yeah. And just uh so listeners again
cancer as a as a metabolic disease is
the name of Dr. Seaf's book. You can get
it on Amazon. Any other place uh they
should get your book. I know Amazon's
one place.
>> Yeah, Amazon is probably well you can
buy it from I I give them a discount
from John Wy Press who's the the
publisher of the book. And it's also
important to realize that the research
that we do here college is largely
supported from private foundations and
philanthropy either Travis
Kristofferson's foundation for cancer
metabolic uh therapy or through the our
cancer biology at Boston College on my
if you go on my web page there's a
donation button
push
>> okay what what's that web page
>> what's that website
>> if the it's the biology biology
department at Boston college and it has
our faculty and then when you come to my
my picture there and my my name and you
look at my profile there's a donation
button there.
>> Great. I'll tell you what I'll put a
I'll put a link in the description on
all listening and watching platforms
here so you'll have that folks.
>> Yeah, doctor thanks a million for
joining me. I appreciate it so much.
>> Well, thank you very much Carl. It was
nice to be here.